---
title: Basic Operation: Contact Imaging
layout: doc
author: Jennifer Jordan
date: 21st August 2019

---

## Table of Contents
{:.no_toc}
* ToC
{:toc}

This page serves two purposes: It provides a fairly detailed overview of the basic steps needed to image a surface and any scanning mode of the instrument, and more specifically, it explains how to image a surface in the scan modes where the probe tip remains in constant contact with the sample surface: Z Height, Broadband, and Lateral.

The basic steps required to image a sample are as follows:
- Power up the system.
- Select and install a probe.
- View the probe in the video camera.
- Align the laser optics.
- Set up the scan parameters for the selected imaging mode.
- Position the sample under the probe.
- Lower the probe onto the sample surface.
- Scan the surface.

These steps will be discussed in more detail below.

## Powering up the System
1. If the system has an AC Power Control Module set the Computer, Monitor, and Aux1 switch positions to ON. If your system does not have an AC Power Control Module then turn on the computer, the computer monitor, and the EIU electronics with the power switches on each device. The computer is usually started by pressing a power button on the front panel of the computer, but note that some computers have an additional AC switch on the back of the case.
2. The yellow ON light at the front panel of the EIU should be glowing, and the green READY light should be off. This indicates that the EIU is receiving AC power, but has not yet been initialized by the software. If the yellow light does not come on check the position of the power switch located on the back panel of the EIU.
3. The computer will boot-up automatically with the Windows desktop displayed. To start the SPM control software, double click the ScanAtomic icon on the desktop. (The SPM software folder can also be reached from the desktop. Use the Start button in the lower-left corner of the Windows desktop and navigate to Start > Programs > SPM.) When the software starts the ScanAtomic main window should appear on the screen, and the green READY light on the EIU front panel should glow. The green light indicates that the EIU has been initialized and is ready to control the microscope. If either the READY light does not come on or an error message is generated by the software refer to the Appendix for likely causes and solutions.

## Selecting a Probe
*Anatomy of a Probe*: Commercially manufactured cantilevers are fabricated on wafers of silicon or silicon nitride using semiconductor industry technology, i.e., vacuum chambers, photolithography, sputtering, and ion beams. As manufactured, a single wafer will contain hundreds of 1.5 x 3.6 mm “dies”, each having a tiny cantilever protruding from one end. The dies are very difficult to manipulate by hand because of their size. For ease of handling, Ambios mounts the dies onto magnetic stainless steel mounting preforms, referred to as “crosses.” The crosses fit into a slot in the gold colored “probe holder” at the front of the scanner. The left and right edges of a cross are called “tabs.” It is easiest to manipulate a cross by grasping one of the tabs with tweezers.

////////////////insert 3-2 image///////////////////////////////////

Throughout this manual the whole cross-and-die unit is sometimes referred to generically as a “cantilever” or “probe.”

*Guidelines*: SPM cantilevers fall into two classes: “Contact” type and “Intermittent Contact” type. The characteristics of the surface you wish to scan, and the type of surface information you wish to obtain, dictate which type of cantilever you will choose.

Contact-type cantilevers work best in situations where the material to be imaged is reasonably hard (e.g. metals, ceramics, most polymers) and the surface topography does not have abrupt edges or tall, steep features. They are less expensive than intermittent type cantilevers. And because there are fewer instrument settings involved in using them, imaging a surface with contact cantilevers is easier than with intermittent cantilevers. Anyone new to the field of SPM microscopy should definitely learn to operate the microscope with a contact-type cantilever first. In addition, contact cantilevers have the ability to detect lateral friction forces on the surface, when this type of measurement is desired.

Intermittent-contact cantilevers generally work well on all surfaces. They have the disadvantages of being more expensive and a bit more difficult to use, but they excel in imaging surfaces that are very soft (e.g. organics, polymer coatings) and surfaces with steep features. Intermittent contact cantilevers also have the ability to detect the elastic and adhesive properties of surface materials, when this type of measurement is desired.

The above information provides a rough guideline for selecting a cantilever. Additional information is given in the sections of the manual covering specific modes of operation of the microscope. SPM systems are shipped from Ambios with one box of general purpose contact-type cantilevers and one box of general purpose intermittent-contact cantilevers.

## Installing a Probe
The following steps pertains to the **standard probe holder**, which uses small magnets to hold the magnetic stainless steel cross in place. 

///////////////insert fig 3-2 page 3-3//////////////////////////////////

1. The scanner incorporates a 5 mW class IIIa laser. To avoid eye injury the laser must be turned off whenever the head is removed from the stage. The laser on/off switch is located in the toolbar in the program’s main window.
2. The scan head should be several millimeters away from the stage before removing it from the dovetail plate. If it is not, bring up the Probe Position window and hold down the Z Fast Up button until the probe is several millimeters away from the stage.
3. Remove the scanner by loosening the thumbscrew on the dovetail mounting plate and carefully lifting the scanner off of the microscope stage.

Note: When removing the scanner from the stage, take care not to bump or strike the probe holder, or the ceramic tube to which it is attached. Doing so may damage the PZT.

4. Place the scanner on a level surface, resting it on the flat end of the dovetail extension, with the probe holder facing you.

5. Refer to the photo above. If a cantilever is already seated on the probe holder remove it by sliding the cross in the probe holder so that one of its tabs protrudes beyond the edge of the probe holder, and then lift it away with tweezers.

6. Open a cantilever box and select a replacement cantilever. The cantilevers are held in place within the box by a magnet pad. Using the points of the tweezers, slide the cantilever to the edge of the magnet pad so that a tab overhangs the edge. Then lift up the cantilever by the tab with the tweezers. Do this carefully because if you drop it, it will most certainly be ruined. Lay the cross into the probe holder. With the points of the tweezers, center the cross laterally in the probe holder and then slide it fully forward.

///////////////////insert image 3-4 page////////////////////////////

7. Place the scanner back into the mounting plate on the stage. The lower end of the dovetail should rest against a mechanical stop at the bottom of the mounting plate. Tighten the thumbscrew to lock the scanner in place.




The following steps pertains to the optional **nonmagnetic probe holder**,
1. Move the tilt lever to the horizontal position and lightly lift the probe holder spring by pushing the insertion tool under it, as shown in Figure 9-1. Make sure the insertion tool is at either the left or right edge of the slot to allow room for the metal cross.

Note: Be careful. Over-extending the spring will permanently deform it.

2. Next, holding the metal cross by one of its tabs with tweezers, insert the bottom end of the cross under the spring as shown in Figure 9-2. Gently remove the insertion tool.

3. Center the probe in the holder by sliding it laterally with the tweezers.

///////////////////insert image 13-2///////////////////////////////

## Viewing the Probe in the Camera Window
**Opening the Camera Window**:
The camera view of the cantilever is displayed in the Probe Position window. When the cantilever tilt is set correctly, and the view is properly illuminated and in focus, the camera view will appear similar to the image below. If the camera view is out of focus skip ahead to “Focusing and Rotating the Camera View”.

///////////////////////insert 3-3 on page 3-5//////////////////////////////////// insert 3-2 page 3-3////////////////// side by side/////////////////////////////////

Compare the cross, die, and cantilever positions in the image above on the left to the image above on the right. Note that the cantilever is the only object in-focus. The front of the cross and the front of the probe holder are above the depth-of-field of the camera optics, and are blurred. The sample surface beneath the cantilever is below the depth-of-field, and is also blurred. The cantilever will appear more distinctly in the camera view when the surface in the background is at least partially reflective. For example, the cantilever tends to disappear against the flat-black surface of the XY translation stage, but it can be viewed much more clearly if a glass slide is placed on the stage.

The illumination of the camera view is adjusted with the light intensity slider control in the Probe Position window.

Note that as the light intensity is increased a point may eventually be reached where the video camera’s automatic brightness control feature will become active, and the camera view will not brighten even though the illuminator light intensity is increased. Avoid unnecessarily bright camera illumination settings. Doing so will reduce extraneous heating effects inside the scan head.

If the view is poor then follow the next three sections to improve the cantilever view.

**Adjusting the Cantilever Tilt**:
The tilt of the cantilever can be varied over a range of about ± 4° with the small tilt lever located at the back of the probe holder. The purpose of the tilt adjustment is to compensate for manufacturing variations in the tilt of the cantilever. Later, when the laser optics in the scanner are aligned  the exact setting of the tilt lever will be made. Here, for the purposes of viewing the cantilever, it is only necessary to adjust the tilt lever to approximately the right position. If the tilt lever is set too low, as shown in the image below (A), the cantilever will tilt steeply downward and reflect very little of the illumination light back toward the camera. The cantilever will appear to fade into the background. On the other hand, if the tilt lever is set too high as in (B), the cantilever will be close to horizontal and it will appear mirror-like in the camera window. The correct adjustment falls between these two extremes, as shown below. Adjust the tilt of your cantilever accordingly

//////////////////insert 3-4 page 3-6/////////////////////////////////////////////

**Focusing and Rotating the Camera View**:
Refer to the image below. Loosen the plastic locking screw on the camera body. By sliding the camera body along the extension tube the position of the focal plane of the camera can be varied. Rotating the camera body will rotate the camera image. Set the focal plane so that the cantilever appears sharply in focus in the camera image, and rotate the camera so that the cantilever falls along the y-axis of the video screen. Tighten the locking screw.

/////////////////////////insert 3-5 on page 3-6/////////////////////////////////

**Centering the Camera View**:
The camera view is centered at the factory; normally it will not be necessary to adjust it. If for some reason the cantilever position becomes shifted out of place in the camera view, however, do the following:
1. Loosen the locking screw and raise the camera body so that approximately 2 cm of the extension tube is exposed.
2. Unscrew the extension tube from the lens assembly by about a quarter of a turn. Tighten the locking screw to hold the camera in place.
3. Loosen the locking ring by unscrewing it by no more than a quarter turn.
4. The lens assembly will now be free to move laterally by about 1 mm in all directions. As the lens assembly is moved the center of the camera image will also move. Shift the lens assembly as necessary to center the cantilever near the top of the camera window. Then tighten the locking ring.
5. Screw the extension tube back down onto the locking ring surface. Refocus the camera image as described earlier.
Note that when the locking ring is loose it is also possible to rotate the whole lens assembly into or out of the scan head. Doing so will change the magnification of the camera optics. It is recommended that the magnification is not varies from the factory setting.

## Aligning the Laser Optics


## Setting the Scan Parameters


## Engaging the Probe with the Sample Surface


## Scanning the Sample


## Broadband Imaging
